---
title: "Adaptive Online Sequential ELM for Concept Drift Tackling"
source: "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1610.01922v1"
authors:
  - Arif Budiman
  - Mohamad Ivan Fanany
  - Chan Basaruddin
tags:
  - arxiv
  - needs-commentary
thisweekid: crazydragon
snippet: >
  AOES-ELM tackles concept drift in OS-ELM and CEOS-ELM by adding adaptive capability for
  classification and regression problem.
long: true
---
## Abstract
>   A machine learning method needs to adapt to over time changes in the
> environment. Such changes are known as concept drift. In this paper, we propose
> concept drift tackling method as an enhancement of Online Sequential Extreme
> Learning Machine (OS-ELM) and Constructive Enhancement OS-ELM (CEOS-ELM) by
> adding adaptive capability for classification and regression problem. The
> scheme is named as adaptive OS-ELM (AOS-ELM). It is a single classifier scheme
> that works well to handle real drift, virtual drift, and hybrid drift. The
> AOS-ELM also works well for sudden drift and recurrent context change type. The
> scheme is a simple unified method implemented in simple lines of code. We
> evaluated AOS-ELM on regression and classification problem by using concept
> drift public data set (SEA and STAGGER) and other public data sets such as
> MNIST, USPS, and IDS. Experiments show that our method gives higher kappa value
> compared to the multiclassifier ELM ensemble. Even though AOS-ELM in practice
> does not need hidden nodes increase, we address some issues related to the
> increasing of the hidden nodes such as error condition and rank values. We
> propose taking the rank of the pseudoinverse matrix as an indicator parameter
> to detect underfitting condition.
>
