---
title: "Tensorial Mixture Models"
source: "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1610.04167v1"
authors:
  - "Or Sharir" # The Hebrew University of Jerusalem
  - "Ronen Tamari" # The Hebrew University of Jerusalem
  - "Nadav Cohen" # The Hebrew University of Jerusalem
  - "Amnon Shashua" # The Hebrew University of Jerusalem
tags:
  - arxiv
  - needs-commentary
thisweekid: crazydragon
site: https://github.com/HUJI-Deep/TMM.
---
## Abstract
>   We introduce a generative model, we call Tensorial Mixture Models (TMMs)
> based on mixtures of basic component distributions over local structures (e.g.
> patches in an image) where the dependencies between the local-structures are
> represented by a "priors tensor" holding the prior probabilities of assigning a
> component distribution to each local-structure.
>   In their general form, TMMs are intractable as the prior tensor is typically
> of exponential size. However, when the priors tensor is decomposed it gives
> rise to an arithmetic circuit which in turn transforms the TMM into a
> Convolutional Arithmetic Circuit (ConvAC). A ConvAC corresponds to a shallow
> (single hidden layer) network when the priors tensor is decomposed by a CP (sum
> of rank-1) approach and corresponds to a deep network when the decomposition
> follows the Hierarchical Tucker (HT) model.
>   The ConvAC representation of a TMM possesses several attractive properties.
> First, the inference is tractable and is implemented by a forward pass through
> a deep network. Second, the architectural design of the model follows the deep
> networks community design, i.e., the structure of TMMs is determined by just
> two easily understood factors: size of pooling windows and number of channels.
> Finally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our model when tackling the
> problem of classification with missing data, leveraging TMMs unique ability of
> tractable marginalization which leads to optimal classifiers regardless of the
> missingness distribution.
> 

NOTES:

Highly theoretical - hard to get a handle on what they are presenting exactly.

Uses MNIST and measures ability to identify corrupted data as example.

