---
title: "Adaptive Convolutional ELM For Concept Drift Handling in Online Stream   Data"
source: "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1610.02348v1"
authors:
  - "Arif Budiman"
  - "Mohamad Ivan Fanany"
  - "Chan Basaruddin"
tags:
  - arxiv
  - needs-commentary
thisweekid: crazydragon
---
## Abstract
>   In big data era, the data continuously generated and its distribution may
> keep changes overtime. These challenges in online stream of data are known as
> concept drift. In this paper, we proposed the Adaptive Convolutional ELM method
> (ACNNELM) as enhancement of Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) with a hybrid
> Extreme Learning Machine (ELM) model plus adaptive capability. This method is
> aimed for concept drift handling. We enhanced the CNN as convolutional
> hiererchical features representation learner combined with Elastic ELM
> (E$^2$LM) as a parallel supervised classifier. We propose an Adaptive OS-ELM
> (AOS-ELM) for concept drift adaptability in classifier level (named ACNNELM-1)
> and matrices concatenation ensembles for concept drift adaptability in ensemble
> level (named ACNNELM-2). Our proposed Adaptive CNNELM is flexible that works
> well in classifier level and ensemble level while most current methods only
> proposed to work on either one of the levels.
>   We verified our method in extended MNIST data set and not MNIST data set. We
> set the experiment to simulate virtual drift, real drift, and hybrid drift
> event and we demonstrated how our CNNELM adaptability works. Our proposed
> method works well and gives better accuracy, computation scalability, and
> concept drifts adaptability compared to the regular ELM and CNN. Further
> researches are still required to study the optimum parameters and to use more
> varied image data set.
> 