---
title: "Sequence-based Sleep Stage Classification using Conditional Neural   Fields"
source: "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1610.01935v1"
authors:
  - "Intan Nurma Yulita"
  - "Mohamad Ivan Fanany"
  - "Aniati Murni Arymurthy"
tags:
  - arxiv
  - needs-commentary
thisweekid: crazydragon
---
## Abstract
>   Sleep signals from a polysomnographic database are sequences in nature.
> Commonly employed analysis and classification methods, however, ignored this
> fact and treated the sleep signals as non-sequence data. Treating the sleep
> signals as sequences, this paper compared two powerful unsupervised feature
> extractors and three sequence-based classifiers regarding accuracy and
> computational (training and testing) time after 10-folds cross-validation. The
> compared feature extractors are Deep Belief Networks (DBN) and Fuzzy C-Means
> (FCM) clustering. Whereas the compared sequence-based classifiers are Hidden
> Markov Models (HMM), Conditional Random Fields (CRF) and its variants, i.e.,
> Hidden-state CRF (HCRF) and Latent-Dynamic CRF (LDCRF); and Conditional Neural
> Fields (CNF) and its variant (LDCNF). In this study, we use two datasets. The
> first dataset is an open (public) polysomnographic dataset downloadable from
> the Internet, while the second dataset is our polysomnographic dataset (also
> available for download). For the first dataset, the combination of FCM and CNF
> gives the highest accuracy (96.75\%) with relatively short training time (0.33
> hours). For the second dataset, the combination of DBN and CRF gives the
> accuracy of 99.96\% but with 1.02 hours training time, whereas the combination
> of DBN and CNF gives slightly less accuracy (99.69\%) but also less computation
> time (0.89 hours).
> 