---
title: "Evolving the Structure of Evolution Strategies"
source: "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1610.05231v1"
authors:
  - "Sander van Rijn"
  - "Hao Wang"
  - "Matthijs van Leeuwen"
  - "Thomas Bäck"
tags:
  - arxiv
  - needs-commentary
published_in:
  - crazydragon-research
---
## Abstract
>   Various variants of the well known Covariance Matrix Adaptation Evolution
> Strategy (CMA-ES) have been proposed recently, which improve the empirical
> performance of the original algorithm by structural modifications. However, in
> practice it is often unclear which variation is best suited to the specific
> optimization problem at hand. As one approach to tackle this issue, algorithmic
> mechanisms attached to CMA-ES variants are considered and extracted as
> functional \emph{modules}, allowing for combinations of them. This leads to a
> configuration space over ES structures, which enables the exploration of
> algorithm structures and paves the way toward novel algorithm generation.
> Specifically, eleven modules are incorporated in this framework with two or
> three alternative configurations for each module, resulting in $4\,608$
> algorithms. A self-adaptive Genetic Algorithm (GA) is used to efficiently
> evolve effective ES-structures for given classes of optimization problems,
> outperforming any classical CMA-ES variants from literature. The proposed
> approach is evaluated on noiseless functions from BBOB suite. Furthermore, such
> an observation is again confirmed on different function groups and
> dimensionality, indicating the feasibility of ES configuration on real-world
> problem classes.
>
