---
title: "A Survey of Voice Translation Methodologies - Acoustic Dialect Decoder"
source: "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1610.03934v1"
authors:
  - "Hans Krupakar"
  - "Keerthika Rajvel"
  - "Bharathi B"
  - "Angel Deborah S"
  - "Vallidevi Krishnamurthy"
tags:
  - arxiv
  - needs-commentary
thisweekid: crazydragon
---
## Abstract
>   Speech Translation has always been about giving source text or audio input
> and waiting for system to give translated output in desired form. In this
> paper, we present the Acoustic Dialect Decoder (ADD) - a voice to voice
> ear-piece translation device. We introduce and survey the recent advances made
> in the field of Speech Engineering, to employ in the ADD, particularly focusing
> on the three major processing steps of Recognition, Translation and Synthesis.
> We tackle the problem of machine understanding of natural language by designing
> a recognition unit for source audio to text, a translation unit for source
> language text to target language text, and a synthesis unit for target language
> text to target language speech. Speech from the surroundings will be recorded
> by the recognition unit present on the ear-piece and translation will start as
> soon as one sentence is successfully read. This way, we hope to give translated
> output as and when input is being read. The recognition unit will use Hidden
> Markov Models (HMMs) Based Tool-Kit (HTK), hybrid RNN systems with gated memory
> cells, and the synthesis unit, HMM based speech synthesis system HTS. This
> system will initially be built as an English to Tamil translation device.
> 